---
layout: post
title:  "Scrappy"
date:   1944-04-10 18:00:00
categories:
tags: 
image: /assets/article_images/scrappy.png
---

Our group arrived overseas with all brand new B-17F's (not counting ours which was left in the scrap heap at MacDill). We were bivouacked with the 99th Bomb Group. The 99th had been overseas for some time in North Africa. I never got to meet or talk with anybody from the 99th, although I suppose some of the brass in our group did. I'm sure they weren't thrilled at having to move to Italy to finish out their missions after being stationed in Tunisia. There were no cots for the tents we were assigned and we slept on the ground on straw. The field was really crowded with two groups. The planes were parked next to each other all around the field, with no dispersion at all. Each night a German reconnaissance plane (Washing Machine Charlie) would come over and we were supposed to get out of the tents and into slit trenches. No bombs ever fell near us, and after a while nobody bothered to leave their nice warm buggy straw beds. When our field at Sterparone was ready, we left with the 99th's old planes and they kept our new ones, which put us back on par with everyone else in our group. The plane I inherited from the 99th had originally been named "Scrappy". It had flown over 100 missions and it showed. The exterior was a patchwork of metal plates. It was so beat up that the "S" in "Scrappy" had been crossed out to give it a name more suited to its personality. Cold air came in the edges of the patches; bombs hung up in the bays; the oxygen often disappeared at altitude; and the gyroscopes for the bomb sight would just die out because the generators were so weak. It became our practice to have everybody turn off their heated suits (which didn't work too well anyway) when we started our bomb run. This made it pretty cold with the bomb bay doors and the waist gunner windows open, not to mention all the holes in the plane. The waist gunners' cheek's would be blue with cold. The outline of their oxygen masks impressed into the cheeks would be visible for an hour after we came down from altitude. The temperature was usually about 50 or 60 below zero at our usual bombing altitudes. It's any ones guess what the wind chill would be with the plane going 200 MPH and a wind often 100 MPH. 

We turned back once in Scrappy when there was no oxygen left before we finished climbing to altitude. We received a lecture about how serious it was to abort a mission. Major Ascani, the Squadron CO, called a meeting for the lecture. He absolutely guaranteed us that he would never turn back from a mission. After that lecture the crew that shared Scrappy with us (each of us flying every other mission) also lost their oxygen, but were so afraid to turn back that they had all but the essential members of the crew lie down in the waist and radio rooms, breathing easy to save oxygen from the small emergency bottles. On the bomb run all but the the pilot and bombardier lay down in the back.

It wasn't just the flight crews that were growing tired of the plane. The maintenance crews got so sick of wasting so much time keeping all the systems running that the engineering officer offered a $100 reward to whoever would take Scrappy out and come back without it. One day a pilot named Jackson took Scrappy out for a training flight. Funny thing was, the only crew member he had with him was his tail gunner and somehow they forgot to put down the tail wheel. With a hard, sloppy landing the plane broke in half. Jackson got the $100, but never made it above 2nd Lieutenant while I was there. 

We were finally assigned a brand new B17-G. Unlike the older B17's, these came with an unpainted, shiny aluminum skin that made them look sleek and slim. The paint was left off to make up for the drag of an additional nose turret added for the bombardier. There were two .50 caliber machine guns and a gun-sight that could be pulled in front of your eyes when you took hold of the handlebar controls of the turret. The whole turret articulated, so when moving the guns, the seat would swing around and revolve with them. It was a great improvement over the previous guns which would just stick out from the side of the plane. We also received new ammunition. Previously, each bullet was either explosive, armor piercing, or a tracer. Each bullet type would have it's own trajectory, so you would have to watch the tracers and try to adjust for the differences. Now, all three were combined into one, and you no longer had to adjust. 

We headed out on our first mission in our new aircraft. We were flying with a gunner from another squad so he could get in his last mission and go home. After a few hours in the sky I went to use the relief tube in the bomb bay and found nothing there. They had forgot to install it. Either the crew flying the plane over to Italy had extremely strong bladders or it had been shipped. Without thinking of any consequences, I emptied into the bomb bay. Several other crew did as well before reaching our target. At the start of the bomb run the doors wouldn't open -- there were frozen shut! We had RDX bombs on board. The RDX bombs had a more sensitive detonator and were not to be salvoed through and bomb bay doors, much less frozen ones. Neither the electronic or mechanical shutters could open the doors. Eventually, Goesling turned out of the formation and circled around to join another group further back. Meanwhile we hung on to the upright supports and stomped on the doors to loosen them. Four German fighters circled around our plane, getting their shots in at what they must have thought was a cripple. Finally the doors opened and we joined in at the end of the formation. All the guns in that group were turned on us as there were reports of the Germans having captured some B17's. We managed to drop our bombs on target with this group and convinced them we weren't disguised Germans. 

A week later, we still hadn't received credit for the mission, as all had to be corroborated. This was really sweat out by the gunner trying to finish out his missions. Finally, we got sign off from some members of the other group that we had dropped on target, and received mission credit. What a relief for him to finally get the word that he could go home without having to fly another mission. I bet he shared my feelings toward flying with another crew instead of your own, even if you knew some of them.

