---
layout: post
title:  "My First Mission"
date:   1944-04-15 15:00:00
categories:
tags: 
image: /assets/article_images/scrappy-1.jpg
---

After a few days at Sterparone I was assigned to fly a mission to Nis, Yugoslavia, with a different crew. The custom was so new people with some experienced ones, although at that stage of the game I don't know how much experience anybody had. I don't remember what cruel I flew but I remember the navigator he was a navigator of the crew which had ditched in the Atlantic on the way over to north Africa. He had lost all his belongings including his clothing and of course all his flying gear. I remember seeing him going from tent to tent to borrow flying clothes and equipment. Seen the Army air Corps could keep him flying missions but couldn't get him clothes. I heard later he was sent home without finishing his missions anyway he elicited a measure of sympathy as the only close he always seem to be a pair of coveralls. 

On the way to the target this guy (John Goldthorpe?) I later heard, had a couple of sheets of armor plate, one of which he laid on the floor of our compartment, alongside the navigator's table. He then took a couple of boxes of .50 caliber machine gun bullets which he carefully placed around the armor sheet with the bullets pointing out. This formed a little hut, over which he placed the other piece of armor plate. He crawled into this but at the initial point ( the start of the bomb run) and stayed there until bombs away. 

I heard later he was returned to the states for a nervous condition when I'm sure he was mad. After that first mission I had a kind of nervous condition myself. One plane was shot down on the Mission.

As this was my first combat mission I didn't know what to make of all this, but then I didn't know what to make of very much at all of what happened on that first mission. This first bomb run went very quickly. I wasn't supposed to be using the bombsight, but I turned it on and was looking for practice. There was plenty of flack and I remember  seeing red and orange flashes in the center of the black smoke, several planes were lost. Immediately after bombs away we were in a terrific diving turn with black smoke just ahead of us for quite a while, it seemed, although was only a few seconds. I don't remember what altitude we were bombing from but I heard later it was 12 or 14,000 feet due to cloud cover over the target. This is about 5000 feet too low for a formation of B-17s. Remember there is a whole Air Force planes in the same cloud mass. The procedure is to take a slow climbing turn to the right until out of the clouds. This is fine in theory and usually in practice, but I remember one occasion when a whole group of B-17s, evidently not turning to the right as much as we were or maybe turning to the left (at least that is how It appeared relative to me) somehow merged and mashed right through our formation and kept on going off to the left. This situation, one group flying through another, reminded me of that mission to Friedrichshafen, on Lake Constance where do to the lead plans airspeed being 5 miles too slow, groups were intermingling with each other on the bomb run. 

Another time, we were aware of damage to one wheel, so Goessling and Abbott held the plane on one wheel while landing until very nearly the end of the runway then set it down and when the damaged struck hit the ground the plane just turned on it and ended up just off the runway allowing following planes to land without running into us. I thought that was a marvelous piece of flying just about as good as they did when we were hit over Budapest and they landed the crippled plane on the hospital runway using parachutes to break the plane. The plane slewed off the end of the runway right into the hospital yard and all the doctors and nurses had to do was step out the door and tend to wounded. I don't think the efforts of those two was appreciated by the group's higher-ups nor by the intelligence officers responsible for reporting actions. In any case, I am here to say I'm glad I was flying with them.
